# University Application Encyclopedia
### Title:
University Application Encyclopedia
### Purpose:
This application is designed for upcoming college students to finetune their academic interests and discover what universities and professors best align with them. By receiving personalized information about universities, faculty, and relevant publications from our app "University Application Encyclopedia", we hope students will have the tools they need to make informed decisions about where to apply for college and which professors to learn from. 
### Demo(Requires Illinois Credentials): https://mediaspace.illinois.edu/media/t/1_pi2df1nh
### Installation: 
We utilized the databases given to us in the academic world and uploaded them to MySQL, MongoDB, and Neo4j via the instructions in previous MPs. After downloading our code files, run the line: python ./app.py This will prompt you to a link which will display our dashboard.
### Usage:
Our dashboard relays an encyclopedia of information relevant to upcoming college students. Students can use this tool to find out what universities to apply to and what professors to seek out. The widgets primarily take in user input which allows students to find areas of academic interest, universities, and publications that align with these interests. These widgets are meant to be used in tandem. For example, a student might first find an interest point from the "Keyword Trend" widget, then search for professors that specialize in this interest through the "Top Professors by Keyword" widget. Once they've found a few professors they align with academically, they can search the professors' names and view what other publications they've released. All together this dashboard provides students the perfect tool to find popular areas of academic study and to expand on these interests.
### Design: 
There are 6 widgets that have different capabilities to support our purpose. The first widget displays popular keywords in a bubble chart display. This might help students to choose an area of concentration. Next a similar yet different widget is keyword over time which shows which keywords have had the most relevant publications today. To supplement this we have publications by keyword. Students can use this widget to find publications that are relevant to their area of interest. Since our app is designed for students to help in their university matching search, the next widget "Universities for Selected Keyword" offers the top universities within a given field or department. The last two widgets allow students to dig deeper into their professor choices and search the professors that do research in their chosen interest and then find their list of publications. 
### Implementation:
We utilized the databases given to us under the "academic world" umbrella. In the first widget, we used MySQL to filter out the most popular keywords. In the second widget, we used Neo4j to display the trend of a selected keyword. The next two widgets used mongodb to match publications with keywords and universities with keywords. Lastly we used mySQL again to find the faculty members that have the most number of publications associated with a user inputted keyword. 
### Database Techniques:
Our three primary techniques are indexing, constraints, and prepared statements. We are using indexing when we search for specific fields such as publication_id or keywords.name. This allows us to look for specific characteristics within our databases more efficiently. We are also using constraints in MongoDB by framing our widgets to only allow user to modify the number of citations with none-negative number. Lastly we utilize the prepared statements technique. We can see this in the update profile photo where we specifically state the photo_url and photo_id to be in the query. 
### Contributors: 
Runali Hatalkar and Meng An
